---
layout: page
title: About Me
tags: [about, me]
date: 2010-03-16
comments: false
---
    
<center>Hi, I'm Nathaniel. I am a software developer and a Machine Learning Masters student at Stevens Institute of Technology. I am very pasionate about a lot of things, but I just listed a few here that I feel fall in line with my career interests. I also love coffee and am alays open to grab one and chat about almost anything. I enjoy reading papers, working on challenging problems, and building cool things and I am driven to learn all that I can. Thank you so much and I hope you enjoy browsing my webpage and learning more about me.</center>

<center><a href="../assets/files/resume.pdf" target="_blank" class="btn">Resume</a></center>

## Interests
* <b>Computer Vision</b> Computer vision has been one of my main interests for some time now. Growing up with a mathematical and engineering background, and later transitioning to computer science, computer vision is one of the topics that love and enjoy learning about. I enjoy the combination of geometry, linear algebra, machine learning, and optimization. This is a broad topic, as there are many areas of computer vision that one could spend an entire career focusing on. I am somewhat particular to stereo vision, or even 3D vision in general, as I really like the applications of the topic to self-driving cars, AR, VR, and many similar projects. What really caught my attention at first was the fact that I could write code that produces tangible objects. Not just numbers or information, but actual images or videos. It was really exciting writting my first program for edge detection and getting this skeletal outline of the structures in images, all from simply (more or less) manipulating matricies. The excitement has only grown from there. I hope to continue research into the topic during my master's program by taking a special topics course at Stevens and continue to work on really cool and fun projects.

* <b>Deep Learning</b> I am quite new to deep learning, but I have learned a lot about neural networks (specifically CNNs) through my undergraduate research and my senior design project. My undergraduate research involved stereo vision; however, this was less of research and more of a great learning experience. I was apart of a small group of undergraduate students that were interested in computer vision and wanted to become a little bit more involved in the topic. We reached out to one of the associate professors at Stevens and he was kind enough to provide us with learning material and some tasks to help with his research. We mainly read papers about some of the stereo vision algorithms we would be analyzing and held weekly meetings discussing the content of the papers. We also worked on analyzing benchmark results for the algorithms from a few online benchmark suites (KITTI, Middlebury, etc.). We also worked with this bench data and wrote a few scripts (Python, Bash) to compare their results across different algorithms. For my senior design, the project my team worked on is image classification. The company we were completing these tasks for required a solution to their problem of monitoring shipping containers as they are filled with packages. Part of the solution my team was working on was to create a system that recognizes when then existing containers are done being filled and new containers are brought into the scene of the cameras. We also needed to appropriately classify the type of containers that are in the image scene in order for us to run some statistics on each image. 

* <b>Machine Learning & Data Science</b> I list both Machine Learning and Data Science in the same section just for the sake of saying a little bit about both topics at once. During my Master's degree, if I have learned anything, it is that your models are only as good as your data and its organization. I am by no means an expert in machine learning and all of its very broad applciations, but I do have enough experience to know how important data science is to machine learning. Collecting, cleaning, and organizing data have been the longest and most useful and helpful parts of the projects I have done involving computer vision and machine learning. With that being said, the things that machine learning algorithms can do with data are simply astonishing. Even the math behind a lot of these algorthms is something to be seen. I have taken a Statistical Machine Learning course that was very much devoted to teaching the theory behind ML and optimization. The proofs, while at times could be very verbose, were incredible to think and learn about. I really enjoyed learning about how we can make such strong garuntees in certain situations about the outcomes of some of these algorithms and how they take the intuition behind the data being provided and the solution to be produced and build functions that can be optimized to give very accurate predictions or answers.

<center><a class="btn" href="http://instagram.com/grumpy_roast/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"><i class="fa fa-fw fa-instagram"></i></a></center>
